Include 2026 nasa champions coworking event announcement (#140)
NASA-Openscapes/NASA-Openscapes.github.io: news/2026-08-18-coworking-nasa-champions-2026/index.qmd

---

> title: "NASA Openscapes champions coworking sessions" 

Reviewer: Please add Suborbital here

author:
  - name: Ronny Hernández Mora
    orcid: 0000-0001-6225-7096
  - name: Andy Teucher
    orcid: 0000-0002-7840-692X
  - name: Julie Lowndes
    orcid: 0000-0003-1682-3872
  - name: Stefanie Butland
    orcid: 0000-0002-5427-8951
date: 2026-08-18
citation: 
  url: https://nasa-openscapes.github.io/news/2026-08-18-coworking-nasa-champions-2026/
categories: [blog, champions]
image: ./zommie.png
---

> *This fall we will have the NASA-Openscapes Coworking sessions. These biweekly sessions begin September 10th, from 10:30 to 12:00 PT through December.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*This fall we will have NASA Openscapes Coworking sessions for EVS-4 teams. These biweekly sessions begin September 10th, from 10:30 to 12:00 PT through December.*
```

*Quicklinks:*

- *Cohort webpage: [https://nasa-openscapes.github.io/2026-nasa-champions/](https://nasa-openscapes.github.io/2026-nasa-champions/)*   
- *Cohort blogpost: [https://openscapes.org/blog/2026-07-23-nasa-champions-2026/](https://openscapes.org/blog/2026-07-23-nasa-champions-2026/)*

> - *Better Science for Future Us ([slides](https://openscapes.github.io/series/core-lessons/guest-instructors/better-science-2026-06-03.html#/title-slide), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?si=utRv6sqsELhaecNn&v=aDeXqxkgYYM&feature=youtu.be&themeRefresh=1)), by [Ian Carroll](https://science.gsfc.nasa.gov/sci/bio/ian.t.carroll) Associate Research Scientist at the University of Maryland Baltimore County working for NASA Goddard Space Flight Center.*  

Reviewer: Can delete the following bullets, keep the Cohort webpage and blogpost only I think

- *Metadata for Suborbital Data Publication ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-flozA_ph9tBzqatoOs69lD8NpcfiIZ6VFeP2MDINmk/edit?slide=id.g3f173a351bb_1_137#slide=id.g3f173a351bb_1_137)*, [*video*](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19trpyeo4DAV3qtFi-Cje_CWGUoqlPP0o/view?usp=sharing&t=345.229)*), by [Rupesh Shrestha](https://www.ornl.gov/staff-profile/rupesh-shrestha) and [Michele Thornton](https://www.ornl.gov/staff-profile/michele-m-thornton) research staff scientists at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), and [NASA Openscapes](https://nasa-openscapes.github.io/) Mentors.*  
- *Project overview blog: [Supporting NASA suborbital science teams to develop reproducible workflows](https://openscapes.org/blog/2026-03-03-suborbital/)*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## EVS-4 teams, please join us for further support in Coworking Fall 2026!

To continue making progress and connections within and across EVS-4 teams and
NASA Mentors, we will host biweekly NASA Openscapes Coworking sessions from
**September to December, on Wednesdays, from 10:30am \- 12pm PT**. These are

> drop-in and open to anyone on EVS-4 teams – bring a colleague\! - If you want

Reviewer: ```suggestion
drop-in and open to anyone on EVS-4 teams – even if you did not participate in the June Champions Cohort. 
```

develop as needs emerge. During the cohort sessions, some topics were suggested
as areas where additional support could be valuable such as:    

* **Shared, open documentation with notebooks (Quarto, Jupyter)**   
  * How to create notebooks  
  * How to render notebooks locally (and what does this mean\!)  
  * How to “deploy” notebooks as a website  
  * Changing/updating notebooks  
  * Work as a team in a notebooks (version control)  
* **Collaboration in the cloud with data**  
  * Data formats (cloud optimized, etc)  
  * GitHub not for hosting data but for code and documentation
* **Project management with GitHub**  
  * Issues priorities  
  * Canvas  
  * Communication through issues vs messages on slack  
  * Best practices for creating READMEs  
* **Visualizations**, [like this one for BioSCape](https://popo.jpl.nasa.gov/mmgis-aviris/?mission=BIOSCAPE). It’s open source ([github repo](https://github.com/NASA-AMMOS/MMGIS)) so FORTE could fork and customize it. This is promising; visualizations are something that teams ask for often. However, a caution that before the metadata is finalized, it is difficult to visualize. 

> We also invite you: **Openscapes will host a Community Call this Fall about AI

Reviewer: Add: on Oct 1! And change the link from the planning issue to be something like "please check nasa-openscapes.github.io/events for registration details in the next weeks"
